[graphql/docs] Add initial graphql docs content (#15366)
MystenLabs/sui: docs/content/references/sui-api/graphql/overview.mdx

---
title: Overview
description: An overview of the Sui GraphQL RPC service.
---

> ## About Sui GraphQL RPC

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Page title will be the first heading.

> The ability to define precisely the data you want—and only the needed data is a powerful advantage over traditional REST API endpoints. GraphQL lets you replace multiple REST requests with a single call to fetch the required data. Sui provides a GraphQL implementation to serve the data available on-chain, and this page describes how to get started, where to find query examples, and the current limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ability to define precisely the data you want—and only the needed data—is a powerful advantage over traditional REST API endpoints. GraphQL lets you replace multiple REST requests with a single call to fetch the required data. Sui provides a GraphQL implementation to serve the data available on chain, and this topic describes how to get started, where to find query examples, and the current limitations.
```

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

> The Sui GraphQL RPC service can be accessed in multiple ways. An [online interactive IDE](https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql) is available to enable users to familiarize themselves with the schema and available queries. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can access the Sui GraphQL RPC service in multiple ways. An [online interactive IDE](https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql) is available for you to familiarize yourself with the schema and available queries. 
```

> If you use TS SDK, the [Guides](./guides.mdx) page will provide a migration guide on how to use the updated TS SDK that leverages the new GraphQL implementation. For developers who used to query the JSON RPC endpoints, they will now have the option to query the new GraphQL enpdpoint in a similar fashion as before (see next section).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Sui TypeScript SDK, [Sui GraphQL Guidelines](./guides.mdx) provides a migration guide on how to use the updated TypeScript SDK that leverages the new GraphQL implementation. If you used to query the JSON RPC endpoints, you now have the option to query the new GraphQL endpoint in a similar fashion as before (see next section).
```

> ### High Level Overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### High level overview
```

> #### Top Level Queries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Top level queries
```

> In GraphQL data is retrieved through queries in a JSON format. At the top level, there are a number of [queries](./reference/queries/address) that can be executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In GraphQL, you retrieve data through queries in a JSON format. At the top level, there are a number of [queries](./reference/queries/address) that you can execute.
```

#### Connections

> 

Reviewer: Just a note that these pages are reachable through search. Okay with having blank sections if someone lands here? If not, remove and put back when ready.

Author: @ronny-mysten searchable through google search or through our GitHub?

Reviewer: Through the docs.sui.io site search.

> #### Mutations (Executions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Mutations (executions)
```

### Using Sui GraphQL RPC

> An interactive IDE with autocomplete support and in-built documentation is available: [Sui GraphQL](https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An interactive IDE with autocomplete support and built-in documentation is available: [Sui GraphQL](https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql). 
```

> The endpoint can also be queried using REST calls by passing the query to the call. Please note that the endpoint is rate-limited:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include the `query` information in the `data` parameter of the cURL call to query the endpoint using REST.

:::info

The `https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql/v1` endpoint is rate-limited to keep network throughput optimized.

:::
```

```shell
# basic query
curl -X POST https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql/v1 \
     --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
          "query": "query { epoch { referenceGasPrice } }"
     }'
# query with variables
curl -X POST https://mainnet.sui.io/rpc/graphql/v1 \
     --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
     --data '{
          "query": "query ($epochID: Int!) { epoch(id: $epochID) { referenceGasPrice } }", "variables": { "epochID": 123 } 
     }'
```

### Examples

> An extensive list of query examples is available in the [Examples](./examples.mdx) page, which mirrors the source code examples in the [repository](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-graphql-rpc/examples). Any existing addresses/object IDs in these examples refer to the `mainnet` data only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A list of query examples is available in the [Examples](./examples.mdx) page, which mirrors the source code examples in the [repository](https://github.com/MystenLabs/sui/tree/main/crates/sui-graphql-rpc/examples). Any existing addresses/object IDs in these examples refer to `mainnet` data only.
```

## Limits

> The GraphQL service employs several techniques to ensure against DDoS attacks and other ways to oveload to server (e.g,. making overly complex queries that require full DB scans). In particular, queries are rate-limited both at the number of attempts and on their complexity, such as the number of nodes and the depth of the query. Importantly, the payload size is also limited. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GraphQL service employs several techniques to ensure against DDoS attacks and other ways to overload the server (such as making overly complex queries that require full DB scans). In particular, queries are rate-limited both at the number of attempts and on their complexity, such as the number of nodes and the depth of the query. Importantly, the payload size is also limited. 
```
